Update git course with exercises and some more advanced material (#268)
UNIVERSE-HPC/course-material: technology_and_tooling/version_control/13-remotes.md

tags: [git, advanced]
learningOutcomes:
  - Explain the difference between centralised and distributed version control.
  - Work with more than one remote repository at once.
  - Reference and compare branches on different remotes.
  - Host a Git repository yourself using a bare repository.
attribution:
  - citation: >
      This material was adapted from the OxfordRSE "Git and GitHub" course, a
      derivative work of the UCL Research Software Development Group teaching
      materials and the Software Carpentry "Version Control with Git" lesson.
    url: https://github.com/OxfordRSE/git-github-course
    image: https://southampton-rsg-training.github.io/git-novice/assets/img/home-logo.png
    license: CC-BY-4.0
---

:::callout{variant="tip"}

## Advanced: safe to skip

This module covers working with several remotes and running your own Git server.
Most users only ever need the single `origin` remote covered earlier, so feel free
to skip this until you need it.
:::

## Centralised vs distributed

Older version control systems (like CVS and Subversion) were **centralised**: the
history lived only on a server, and almost every operation required an internet

> connection.

Reviewer: I think this perhaps minimsed these toosl, both that they needed internet,might be a locla server, and that every opoeration needed the server.

| Centralised (cvs, svn)             | Distributed (git, mercurial)          |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- |

> | Server holds the history           | Every clone has the _full_ history    |

Reviewer: aorry, peantry drives this cahnge (sahllow clones)

```suggestion
| Server holds the history           | A normal clone has the _full_ history    |
```

| You commit to the remote server    | Users synchronise histories           |

Because Git is **distributed**, there is nothing special about `origin` - a clone
is a complete repository in its own right, and you can connect to **as many
remotes as you like**.

## Working with a second remote

So far we have had a single remote called `origin`. But you might, for example,
have your own **fork** of a project on GitHub as well as the original. You can add
a second remote alongside `origin`:

```bash
git remote add upstream git@github.com:originalauthor/climate-analysis.git
git remote -v
```

```text
origin    git@github.com:yourname/climate-analysis.git (fetch)
origin    git@github.com:yourname/climate-analysis.git (push)
upstream  git@github.com:originalauthor/climate-analysis.git (fetch)
upstream  git@github.com:originalauthor/climate-analysis.git (push)
```

Commands that talk to remotes let you name which one to use (they assume `origin`
if you don't). So you can push a branch to your own fork while pulling updates from
the original project:

```bash
git push origin main
git pull upstream main
```

## Referencing remotes

> When you run `git fetch`, Git downloads the latest state of a remote **without**

Reviewer: because this is right after saying `git remote add upstream` then perhaps it is not transparent enough that this will only fetch origin and not upstream (add -all or specifically call out git fetch upstream)
